DOC1821: [Partner Ops] Passcode reset (#687)
swan-io/docs: docs/topics/operations/guide-reset-passcode.mdx

---
title: Troubleshoot passcode reset failures
---

# Troubleshoot passcode reset failures

This guide helps partner support teams troubleshoot passcode reset failures for their users.

For a step-by-step guide your users can follow, see [Passcode reset](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/20531243310749-Passcode-reset).

:::info Key takeaways

- The most common cause of passcode reset failures is opening links through **in-app browsers** (such as within Gmail, Outlook, or other messaging apps). Always check this first.
- Save these session-clear links. They resolve the vast majority of issues without a support ticket:
  - Mobile: `https://identity.swan.io/authenticator/clear`
  - Desktop: `https://identity.swan.io/logout/callback`

> - Users shouldn't change a phone number and reset a passcode at the same time. Each step needs to be done separately and in the right order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users shouldn't change a phone number and reset a passcode at the same time. Each change must happen separately, in the right order.
```
Active voice; mirrors the caution wording later on the page.

:::

---

> ## Know your role and Swan's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Who does what
```
Matches the heading `guide-troubleshoot-transfers` uses for the same responsibility table — keeps the series templatable.

| Task | Responsible |
| --- | --- |
| Share session-clear links with the user | You |
| Verify the phone number on the account with the user | You |
| Guide the user to use their main browser | You |
| Investigate failed reset attempts | Swan Support |
| Resolve a phone number access issue | Swan Support |

---

## Reset a passcode

When a user forgets their passcode, they reset it through Swan's Web Banking or your banking app. Direct the user to the [Passcode reset](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/20531243310749-Passcode-reset) article for a step-by-step guide. The user must complete the reset themselves. You can't do it on their behalf.

> The user may be guided through an identity verification step. The system automatically selects the method based on their verification status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swan may guide the user through an identity verification step, selecting the method automatically based on their identification status.
```
"Identification status" is the correct term: the linked support article uses it, and in the API `VerificationStatus` is a different concept (account holder verification) from `SwanIdentificationStatus`. Also moves to active voice.

:::caution Session expired

> If your user's identification is `Expired`, they didn't finish the verification step in time. Time limits depend on the process, see [identification statuses](/topics/users/identifications/#statuses). They need to start a new request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your user's identification is `Expired`, they didn't finish the identification in time. Time limits depend on the process. See [identification statuses](/topics/users/identifications/#statuses). They need to start a new request.
```
Fixes the comma splice and aligns "verification step" → "identification" (the `Expired` status belongs to identification).

:::

For more guidance on identification, see [Manage user identification](/topics/operations/guide-user-identification/).

---

## Handle a phone number change with a passcode reset

:::caution Don't combine these two changes
Changing a phone number and resetting a passcode at the same time puts your user in an infinite loop. Each change needs to happen separately, in order.
:::

**Correct sequence:**

1. The user resets their passcode using their current phone number.
1. Wait for the reset to be confirmed.

> 1. The user can now change their phone number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The user resets their passcode using their current phone number.
2. Wait for the reset to be confirmed.
3. The user can now change their phone number.
```

If the user no longer has access to their old number, or a duplicate user exists, raise a support request in your Dashboard with the user ID and a description of the problem.

---

## Fix the most common failure: in-app browsers

In-app browsers cause the vast majority of passcode reset failures. When a user opens the reset link from inside an app, it opens in a simplified browser. This causes the process to loop, return to the home page, or display an error.

### Identify an in-app browser

If your user shares screenshots, check the navigation bar:

- **Main browser** (Chrome, Safari): full toolbar with URL bar.
- **In-app browser**: simplified header without the standard toolbar.

### Fix the issue

:::caution Locked out

> After 5 failed attempts, the user is blocked and must complete the full passcode reset flow. Direct the user to follow the on-screen prompts to verify their identity and create a new passcode.

Reviewer: The linked [Passcode reset](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/20531243310749-Passcode-reset) support article says: "entered your passcode incorrectly three times, Swan Support will assist." That conflicts with this line on both the count (3 vs 5) and the outcome (Swan Support assists vs self-serve reset flow). Can you confirm the current behavior with Florence? Whichever is right, the other page needs updating so partners don't read two contradictory numbers. Also: if this lockout is about failed login attempts, consider moving the callout to the "Reset a passcode" section — here it reads like 5 failed reset attempts.

Reviewer 2: The 5 times were confirmed by Natalie, that's the current behavior. We already noted that the support center article needs updating, and the ticket has been created.

Reviewer 2: I asked Karine to confirm, I have no answer yet.

Reviewer 2: Needs to be moved, it's about log in attempts.

:::

Ask your user to complete these steps in order:

1. Clear their authentication session. Use one of these URLs depending on the device:
   - Mobile: `https://identity.swan.io/authenticator/clear`
   - Desktop: `https://identity.swan.io/logout/callback`

   A blank page appears after clearing. This is expected. Ask the user to log in again.
1. Open Web Banking or your branded URL `https://[partner].banking.swan.io/` in their main browser (Chrome or Safari, not from inside another app).

> 1. Select **Forgot passcode?** and follow the steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open Web Banking or your branded URL `https://[partner].banking.swan.io/` in their main browser (Chrome or Safari, not from inside another app).
2. Select **Forgot passcode?** and follow the steps.
```

- The user cleared their session, is using a main browser, and the reset still fails after multiple attempts.
- The user is stuck in a phone number change and passcode reset loop, and the steps above don't fix it.
- The user reports a successful passcode reset, but their new passcode still fails to log them in.

Include in your request:

- User ID
- Description of the error (ideally with a screen recording)
- Browser and device type
- Whether the user was using an in-app browser
- Steps already taken

---

## Share these articles with your users

Share these Support Center articles with users who have questions about passcode resets:

- [Consent and SMS issues](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/18130894864541): troubleshooting SMS delivery and consent problems.
- [Passcode reset](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/20531243310749-Passcode-reset): step-by-step guide for users resetting their passcode, including identity verification paths.

:::tip Help center content

You can also use these articles as a starting point to create your own FAQ or help center content, tailored to your product's terminology and your users' specific context.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

```
**EOF:** the file is missing a trailing newline.
